Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to show you how to use voter sentiment analysis with Python and L2.
OK let's begin by importing an el T.K..
And then what you need to do is download the Vader lexicon and you only need to do this once.
So we'll say an 80 k download and then pass in Vader underscore lexicon.
Go ahead and run that.
And then if you've already downloaded it it should be almost instantaneous.
If not it may take a little bit of time to download the data from the Internet.
Make sure you check your firewall and make sure that's not blocking your download.
So once you've downloaded the Vader lexicon you should be able to import it using from an A.K..
That sentiment Darth Vader import and then it's sentiment intensity analyzer and then create an instance
of it.
We call it S.A.T.
and what Vader's sentiment intensity analyzer does is it simply takes in the string and returns a dictionary
of scores in four categories negative neutral positive and then a compound score which is computed by
normalizing the negative neutral and positive scores.
So it's create a really simple string.
We'll say this is a good movie and then we'll say essay The Dot and off of this we will call polarity
underscore scores and then pass in the string and you get back this dictionary which has some negative
value a neutral value a positive value and then a compound value which essentially normalizing these
three values here.
So as we expect there is no negative value since it's this is a good movie.
It has some neutral words or tones in it and then it has also some positive tones.
And the max value for any of these is one point zero.
So now let's try a more complicated string.
We'll say this was the best comma most awesome movie and then we're going to capitalize ever made and
have three exclamation points.
And as we previously mentioned Vader is smart enough to understand things like repeated punctuation
and capitalization.
So go ahead and run that.
And then again call aside the polarity scores.
Make sure we spell that right.
Pass on the string.
And here we can see it's again more positive than the previous one.
And we can see here that the compound score is much more positive because neutral also dropped.
Finally let's go ahead and have a very negative string.
So we'll say this was the worst movie I have ever or that has ever disgraces seen.
Let's say that has ever disgraced disgraced the screen OK.
So quite a negative review.
Let's see if the Vader picks it up we'll say S.A.T. polarity scores pass an A.
And here we can see that now there is no positive it's just neutral and negative and so happens is the
compound score then becomes negative so we can see here a compound score of zero would be completely
neutral.
A compound score above zero indicates some sort of positive score and then a compound score below zero
indicates some sort of negative score.
So that we're going to do is show you how you can use Vader to analyze Amazon reviews.
So in our text files folder we have an amazon reviews the TSC file.
I went ahead and moved it to the same location as my notebook here.
And we're going to read it in using pandas will say import pandas as PD and they will say ADF is equal
to PD read CSB and already moved the file here.
So it's simply called Amazon reviews that TSB.
It's again located under text files folder and it's tab separated.
So you need to also indicate that the separator is backslash T for Tab separation.
Once you read that in you should be able to view it by simply calling the head of that data frame.
And essentially what we have here are labels.
They see their process for positive or energy for a negative and then we have the actual text of the
review.
So if we wanted to get an idea of how many positive or negative labels we want we have we can say the
F pass passing the label column and then simply call value underscore counts and we can see here we
have slightly more negative reviews than positive reviews but overall it looks like we have around 10000
reviews.
So what we're gonna do now is do a little bit of cleaning of the data just to double check that we have
no empty records and then we're going to run a first review through Vader.
So quite simply what we're gonna do here is simply say the F that drop N A.
And we'll say in place is equal to true.
That's going to drop anything that's missing and then we're going to do is drop anything that has a
empty whitespace value.
Now for your data sets depending where you get them you may or may not have this but it's always a good
idea.
So I'm just saying for index for label and for review.
So those are kind of place holders there and Def dots and then I'm going to call it or tuples so essentially
here everything is just going to be returned as a tuple where I have the index the label and then the
review text.
So for I label and review I'm going to say if the type of the review is equal to the string type then
I'm going to check that the review is space essentially checking whether or not it's a space there.
And if it's true I'm going to take a list of blanks which will go ahead and define it will say blanks
and we've already seen this kind of thing before but I'll simply say blanks append and then we'll plan
that index position.
So if we run this let's go ahead and check on blanks.
See if we had any blanks.
It looks like we did it.
This list is empty.
So we don't need to drop anything but if we did have some index positions that were brand blanks we
simply need to say DLF drop blanks and then we could say in place is equal to true.
But again since we don't have any we don't actually need to run that line.
So now we're going to do is continue on and run a first review through Vader.
So say SD called polarity scores and we're going to just run the first review on it so we'll say DFT
dot and we'll call I 0 and then call that particular review.
So all I'm doing is if we were to check out this one line here that's essentially just grabbing the
text of the first review so we can see here it's quite positive.
The soundtrack was beautiful game music exclamation points best music etc. so shook up the polarity
score here and then we get back this dictionary and it looks like it has a very small amount of negativity
that Vader picked up and it could be small phrases that get confusing for Vader things like anyone who
cares to listen may be kind of negative in a slight sense but it's actually a very small negativity.
In fact most of it is neutral or slightly positive which means a compound score is extremely positive
which if we take a look at that first label was positive so the first few reviews are positive.
So looks like Vader is actually able to select that.
So now let's go ahead and as scores and labels to the data frame.
So we're going to say the F scores is equal to def review and then we're going to call in apply method
in order to essentially apply SD polarity scores to every single review in our data frame so we'll say
lambda take that review and then apply SD polarity scores to that particular review.
So we run that and this may take a little bit of time because it is running this whole polarity of course
function on every single review.
But once you have that you can go ahead and check out the ahead of the data frame and then you'll get
back in your column scores that contains this dictionary and often you really just want to be of the
compound score.
So let's go ahead and create a new compound column we'll say the F compound and then we'll set that
equal to the F scores and similar idea here.
We're simply going to apply a lambda and we're gonna pass in that dictionary and then just gram compound
off of that dictionary.
So every item in scores is a dictionary source since just reading the score for compound.
So we'll go ahead and run that.
That's going to be much faster since the dictionary is just existing there.
And then we can get the compound score so notice these first five labels they're all positive and it
looks like the compound score is also all positive.
So let's go ahead and based off this compound score do a little bit of logic and say if it's greater
than zero then it's positive.
If it's less than zero it's negative and then we'll compare these compound scores to the true labels
that we already know so we're going to say one last column of our creation comp score and say it's equal
to D F compound we're going to apply essentially a little bit of logic here.
We'll take in that score and we'll say return back the string peo us for positive.
If the score is greater than or equal to zero else return the string negative.
Essentially changing the score into a string that matches our current label.
So if we run this and then again check out the head of our data frame.
Now we have a label.
The review the full scores dictionary the compound offer that scores dictionary and our converted compound
to a score or a label.
P.S. so looks like we're matching up on the first five.
But let's go ahead and have an overall report on the accuracy comparing the Vader compound score labels
to the manual labels from this dataset and we can do that simply by saying from SDK learn that metrics
import and we'll do an accuracy score a classification report as well as a confusion matrix.
So we've already seen quite a few of these already.
Let's first just get the accuracy score and we can do that by simply saying the F label sets the correct
value compared to the F comp score.
So essentially we're comparing how well that Vader perform against what was manually labeled.
So this first label was manual label essentially a person read these reviews and decided whether or
not they're positive or negative.
So if we run their accuracy score we get an accuracy of zero point seven.
If we were to randomly choose positives and negatives we'd be probably getting an accuracy score of
around zero point five.
So we can see we're doing better than random guessing which is quite good given the fact that we're
essentially just running one line of code appear of inside the polarity scores.
So it's definitely not bad considering how simple it is to run this process.
Let's go ahead and print the classification report we'll say print classification report.
And just like before we'll pass in the true label that we know and then our calculated comp score so
we'll run this and then we can see our precision recall an F1 score and we can also compare it to versus
negative versus positive.
So it looks like the Vader has a little bit of trouble with negative reviews versus positive reviews.
And if you take a look at some of these Amazon reviews some of these strings and some of the text is
sometimes a bit hard to read and sometimes it's also sarcastic which means it's really hard to detect
so sarcasm is almost impossible to detect for something like Vader.
And then finally let's print out a confusion matrix so say confusion matrix and then D F label and pass
in what Vader said.
So the comp score here and here we can see our confusion matrix where we have the correctly classified
instance a positive and negative versus the incorrectly classified.
So you can see here again it's not performing well with the negative Varese.
OK.
So this does tell us that Vader correctly identified in Amazon review as positive or negative roughly
around 71 percent of the time.
That's definitely not bad considering how simple the process is.
But it's also not excellent compared to maybe some state of the art deep learning methods for sentiment
analysis but overall for simple import they can quickly apply to any text dataset.
It's quite good.
OK.
Coming up next we'll go ahead and run a sentiment analysis project.
We'll see you there.